Best Zinc Supplement

 Katie Kottemann, MA, Ph.D.

Sep 23, 2022

Many dietary supplements on the market make important health claims, but not many stand up to the rigor of scientific testing and research. One supplement that delivers on the majority of its claims is zinc.

In addition to likely shortening the duration of the common cold (the jury is still out on this one), zinc supplements can also help boost your immune response, regulate blood sugar, slow the progress of age-related macular degeneration, and treat acne. And these are just a few scientifically supported health benefits of this essential nutrient.

With so many zinc supplements on the market, it can be challenging to decipher which one is best for you. We’ve researched which supplements stand out regarding price, formulation, effectiveness, and more. Read our 2022 guide to learn more about the products we recommend.

If you’re in a hurry, check out our top six recommendations below.

Zinc supplements: top considerations
We used several criteria to evaluate zinc supplements, including cost, ingredients, effectiveness, safety, and convenience. Keep reading to find out how our top picks fared in each category.

Ingredients
Winners: Thorne and Garden of Life

Both Thorne and Garden of Life impressed us with their ingredient lists but for different reasons. Thorne includes 30mg of zinc per serving and not much else, and the supplement is free from gluten, dairy, and soy. It’s a simple and straightforward formula that delivers a high dose of zinc. On the other hand, Garden of Life packs their zinc supplement with various vegan ingredients, including vitamin C (60mg), probiotics, and 23 fruits and vegetables. The supplement also contains 30mg of zinc per serving and is free from dairy, soy, GMOs, gluten, and artificial ingredients. When choosing a zinc supplement, you can decide if you want one that’s pure zinc or one that contains other beneficial components.

Effectiveness
Winner: Thorne

Thorne’s zinc capsule is the most effective supplement in this guide because it includes zinc picolinate, one of the most bioavailable forms of zinc. This means that the zinc used in Thorne’s supplements is easily absorbed by the body, providing a higher likelihood of boosting your zinc levels. Some forms of zinc are not absorbed well or have a lower bioavailability than zinc picolinate; they still might somewhat increase your levels of zinc, but your chances of that happening increase with a supplement that contains a highly bioavailable form.

Cost
Winner: Swanson

Swanson is our winner in the cost category because it offers an almost 8-month supply of zinc supplements for less than $5. This is considerably less than the other zinc supplements in this guide but without sacrificing quality. The supplement contains zinc gluconate, one of the forms of zinc most easily absorbed by the body. While Swanson does not offer a subscription option, it does offer free shipping on orders over $50 and a 30-day money-back guarantee. When it comes to value, you can’t really do better than what Swanson has to offer.

Safety
Winners: Thorne and MegaFood

Thorne and MegaFood are tied for safety because both companies are invested in providing pure, high-quality products. Thorne performs four rounds of in-house testing on all ingredients and manufactures their supplements in a cGMP-certified facility. Thorne’s zinc supplement is also NSF-certified for sport, meaning that it is free from all banned substances. MegaFood is a certified B corporation, meaning the company invests in social and environmental accountability. Thus, their supplements are rigorously tested both internally and by third-party labs. If you choose a product from either of these companies, you can rest assured that it is safe and clean.


 
What is zinc?
Zinc is a trace mineral and an essential nutrient found in many common foods that helps your body grow and develop cells. Your body needs only a small amount of trace minerals to function well. Essential nutrients aren’t produced by the body and must be obtained through diet. Many people get enough zinc in their regular diet, and zinc deficiencies are uncommon. But, higher levels of zinc may be necessary for people who need assistance with cell growth and development (like people who have had surgery or are pregnant).

Because it supports cell growth, zinc supplements can help with:

Immunity
Protein and DNA synthesis
Wound healing
Recovery from the common cold
Eye health (specifically reversing macular degeneration)
Acne
Cardiovascular health
Many foods contain zinc, including:

Meat (poultry, seafood, beef, pork)
Legumes
Whole grains
Nuts and seeds
Fortified breakfast cereals
When shopping for a zinc supplement, you may notice that zinc comes in a few different forms. More research is needed to determine which form of zinc is the most bioavailable and effective. Here are the typical forms of zinc used in supplements:

Zinc gluconate
Zinc sulfate
Zinc acetate
Zinc picolinate
Zinc citrate
Zinc monomethionine


Lowered immune response
Hair loss
Diarrhea
Weight loss
Decreased appetite
Eye and skin sores
Slow wound healing
These issues are often successfully corrected with supplements or dietary changes. Talk to your doctor if you’re experiencing these symptoms and are concerned about your zinc levels.

How zinc supplements work
While zinc supplements can help fix a zinc deficiency, they also provide your body with enough zinc to support cell growth, repair, and development. This leads to many health benefits like increased immune response and helps with acne and blood sugar management. Keep reading to learn about how zinc supplementation could benefit you.

Immunity
It’s well known in the medical community that zinc levels impact immunity. Zinc deficiency lowers immune response, and supplementation with zinc can improve immunity. Zinc can also treat and prevent viral infections, and it may shorten the common cold (but doesn’t impact severity). Getting the recommended amount of zinc could also reduce inflammation and treat respiratory infections.

Blood sugar
Studies show that zinc can help manage blood sugar, in part by improving insulin sensitivity. A zinc deficiency is connected to low glycemic control in patients with Type 2 diabetes, meaning that those with low zinc levels are less likely to be able to control their blood glucose levels. Zinc supplementation can improve fasting glucose levels in people with and without diabetes, indicating that it could help prevent or manage the condition.

Heart health
Some scientific research suggests that zinc supplementation could help improve heart health, reducing factors for heart disease and improving cholesterol. While more research needs to be done, the preliminary connections between zinc and a healthy heart are promising.

Eye health
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is an eye disease that impacts older adults, progressively causing central vision loss. Some studies show that supplementation with zinc can slow the progression of AMD, but more research is needed. Zinc deficiency may also contribute to other eye-related issues, but there is no evidence yet that zinc supplementation prevents these issues.

Acne
Zinc has also shown promising results in treating acne, with some studies revealing that people with acne tend to have lower zinc levels. Zinc supplementation leads to fewer pimples, especially in those patients who took oral doses of zinc sulfate. In addition to acne, zinc deficiency has been associated with various other skin conditions.

Are zinc supplements a good choice for you?
Zinc supplements are a good choice if you are experiencing a zinc deficiency or want to boost your zinc levels. This is especially true for pregnant or lactating people or those who don’t get enough zinc because of a restrictive diet.

You may benefit from a zinc supplement if you:

Are vegan or vegetarian
Have an alcohol use disorder
Are over age 50
Live with a chronic illness or digestive issue
Have Type 2 diabetes
Want stronger sperm
Live with macular degeneration
Have sickle cell anemia
You could also benefit from zinc lozenges if you are fighting off the common cold. Studies show that using zinc lozenges can shorten the duration of a cold (but they can’t prevent one). Zinc has also been shown in a few studies to help treat certain viruses, including COVID-19.

Some prescription medications deplete zinc. You may benefit from zinc supplementation if you take any of these, but you should consult your doctor before starting any new supplement. Be cautious about your zinc levels if you take:

Antibiotics
Diuretics
ACE inhibitors
Chemotherapy drugs
Penicillamine
Who should avoid them
You should avoid zinc supplements if you get enough zinc in your diet. The tolerable upper intake level of zinc consumption per day is 40mg for most adults. If you get too much zinc, you could experience side effects like:

Nausea and vomiting
Loss of appetite
Stomach pain
Diarrhea
Headaches
Lowered immunity
Reduced levels of HDL cholesterol
You should also avoid these supplements if you take certain over-the-counter and prescription drugs. Zinc can interfere with the effectiveness of some medications like NSAIDs and immunosuppressants. Consult your doctor before beginning any new supplement, including zinc.

Are zinc supplements safe?
Zinc supplements are safe for most healthy adults when taken as directed. You should not take more than 40mg of zinc per day, with most adult women needing 8mg and adult men needing 11mg. Taking excess zinc can result in side effects like stomach cramps, nausea, vomiting, and headaches.

Even taking the recommended dose of zinc can sometimes cause stomach upset. If you take a zinc supplement and notice this side effect, try taking your next dose with a meal. If you experience more severe side effects, discontinue use and contact your doctor.