Best Online Hearing Test Choosing the best in 2022

 Tim Barclay, PhD

Jan 5, 2022

<p>
Hearing problems rarely appear overnight – if they did, people with hearing loss probably wouldn’t take an average of 7 years before receiving a proper assessment. Even people who know they have a problem may not realize the extent of their hearing loss. According to one study, up to 42% of people over 60 underestimate the severity of their hearing issues.

Should everyone just book an appointment with an audiologist and pay for a professional hearing test? Even in an ideal world (one where insurance coverage and economics didn’t play a role), this would probably be impractical.
</p>

<p>
Fortunately, technological and societal changes mean that today you can test your hearing online. All you need is an internet-connected device and a good test. So which online hearing test is best? The purpose of this guide is to help you identify the best online hearing test for you – we have tried them ourselves and we’ll share all of the important details here.

The first and maybe most important detail is that all of the most recommendable online hearing tests are actually very similar in their approaches and are either designed or hosted by good hearing aid companies. The two biggest goals should be to avoid subpar tests (because they lead to subpar results) and to choose a test connected with a company that will help connect you to the most valuable consultation and hearing aids for your needs, if the test in fact shows that you need help.
</p>

<h6>Why you should trust us</h6>
<p>
Innerbody Research recently celebrated its 20-year anniversary. Over the past two decades, we have helped tens of millions of readers make more informed decisions about staying healthy and living healthier lifestyles.
</p>
<p>
This guide, like all medical-related content on this website, is thoroughly vetted by one or more members of our Medical Review Board for accuracy. Additionally, we extensively analyze each health-related service we review. We evaluate the entire customer experience from signing up to the use of the product or service, and then offer unbiased, marketing-jargon-free analysis based on the latest scientific evidence and medical standards.
</p>

<strong>What are the signs of hearing loss?</strong><br/>
<strong>Common signs of hearing loss include:</strong>
<p>
Friends or family telling you that you’re losing your hearing
Trouble making out words in a conversation when there’s background noise
Difficulty distinguishing certain consonants that sound similar
Sounds in general have gotten muted or fuzzy
Noticing you have to turn up volume higher than you used to
Increasingly taking a back seat in conversation
Changes to your social patterns due to loud settings
Needing people to repeat themselves or talk louder and directly in your direction
The insidious thing about hearing loss is that it usually occurs very gradually. This makes it easy to overlook until the loss is pronounced. Only 20% of people with mild to moderate hearing loss realize it on their own. Unfortunately those who don’t recognize the loss may never seek help.
</p>

<strong>Who is an online hearing test best for?</strong>
<p>
For most people with hearing loss, they (or loved ones) eventually notice one or more of the aforementioned signs one day and realize the condition probably has been happening for a period of time. If this describes you, then an online hearing test is a great place to begin your journey toward identifying a problem and improving your situation.
</p>

<b>Online hearing tests are valuable if:</b>
<p>
You sense that you may have some hearing loss that has been gradually happening
Friends or family suggest you might be experiencing hearing loss, based on observations and interactions
You are over 60 years old (hearing loss is very natural as we age, and so often we don’t realize it’s happening)
You’re a veteran or are currently enlisted
You’ve spent considerable time in loud settings such as stadiums, concert venues, construction sites, oil rigs or factories
Your parent or parents developed hearing problems
There are cases in which hearing loss is not gradual, but instead rapid and more alarming. If that describes your situation – and especially if you notice the loss in one ear – then an online hearing test should not be your first step. Instead, you should promptly go to a medical center to be seen by a health professional in person for evaluation.
</p>

<b>Characteristics of a great online hearing test</b>
<p>
Most of the best online hearing tests are created or hosted by hearing aid manufacturers. This is not a red flag in and of itself. In fact, this can be a valuable source of convenience if you end up needing a correction for your hearing. The important thing is to make sure that the test makers have invested in the necessary ways to achieve good quality.
</p>

So how can you identify a high-quality online hearing test? Here are some important characteristics:

Designed by professionals
Does the test benefit from the input of professionals with deep knowledge of sound and hearing? Some tests are made by neuroscientists, others by audiologists or sound engineers. For all of these professionals, how humans perceive sound is fundamental, making them excellent partners in designing a high-quality hearing test.

Good upfront questionnaire/survey
Though an online hearing test can’t be a total replacement for visiting a doctor’s office for a full physical evaluation, you can learn much more and get more meaningful results when a test.

Clear instructions
There should be specific instructions regarding how to take the test, and how to get the best results. The test should not feel like a clickbait quiz meant to waste time as a fun diversion.

Consultation and next steps after testing
The test will be most valuable if an actual hearing care specialist will be available for a live consultation to go over your results if you want or need it.

Solid hearing aid recommendations if appropriate
If you are taking an online hearing test, the ultimate purpose is to know if your hearing could be improved and to find out conveniently. In 2022, we want the additional convenience of being offered recommendations to expedite that process, if indeed a hearing aid is advisable.

Transparent and honest
Are the test-makers transparent about limitations and honest when the testing results are inconclusive? There are many online hearing tests that you can find for free, and not every test will be so honest, unfortunately. If the test claims to do everything that an in-person physical examination could do, you shouldn’t trust it.

How do online hearing tests work?
At their core, online hearing tests are a version of the ones you would get at an audiologist’s office. These tests expose you to a variety of sounds to see what your ear can detect and understand. The experience will seem quite familiar to those of us who have undergone a hearing test in the office.

Most online hearing tests fall into one of these two categories:

Speech and noise tests. These play real-life sounds and speech excerpts with varying degrees of background noise. The highest-quality tests are quite good at mimicking real-life noises, so they can test your comprehension of key details under static, background conversations, or street sounds.
Tone tests or air conduction tests. These tests play a series of faint noises, buzzes, or hums at specific volumes and frequencies. You will simply need to state whether you can hear them or not. An online hearing test like these is better to identify the “hard limits” of your hearing and to track mild or early-onset hearing loss.
At an audiologist’s office, you would likely undergo similar tests followed by more specialized screening. For example, a bone conduction test would often be used to see if there is something physically blocking your ear canal (such as wax or fluid). These tests usually entail a physical examination or specialized equipment, so they are not available online.

Are online hearing tests accurate?
Online hearing tests can provide an accurate snapshot of the quality of your hearing. Any of the best online hearing tests – and certainly those that we recommend – are designed to help you discover if you have hearing loss as well as provide information about the degree of hearing loss you are experiencing (mild, moderate or severe).

You may or may not realize you have some hearing loss. Either way, an online hearing test is a very useful tool. These tests offer a convenient way to check your hearing proactively in order to keep tabs on your health and quickly identify changes occurring.

When used properly, online tone tests are useful for people who already know they have a hearing problem but want to monitor their progress. These tests provide specific information regarding pitches and volume ranges, which helps you understand how your hearing is evolving.

The limitations of an online hearing test
Here is what these tests can’t do:

Can’t provide official diagnosis. An official diagnosis has to be made through an exam by someone with a medical degree, such as an audiologist or an ENT (ear, nose and throat) doctor for instance.
Can’t determine the underlying cause of hearing loss. There are quite a few possible causes of hearing loss – among them, environmental exposure, injury, natural aging processes, several different diseases, or the accumulation of earwax. Knowing the underlying cause of hearing loss is very valuable because some forms of hearing loss are reversible. In other cases, identifying the cause allows you to avoid experiencing worsening of your hearing moving forward. Without knowing the cause, you won’t know if your hearing loss is likely to get worse; if there are steps to prevent the worsening; or if there is an underlying health condition that requires treatment in order to avoid other unwanted symptoms.
Taking an online hearing test
Most online hearing tests begin with a short survey meant to provide some basic background information. Almost all tests begin by asking your gender and age, as this will affect the “normal” range they will use to evaluate you. For example, a 20-year-old will be expected to detect very high-pitched noises that a 65-year-old would not. Tests may also ask about your ability or comfort with certain situations (for example, house parties). Then, you will get a chance to test the audio setup of your computer or laptop.

headphones for online hearing test
If you are taking a speech and noise test, you will then hear a series of words or short conversations. These usually move from easier (louder, with no background noises) to harder (with very loud static noise or confusing words). After each word or audio clip, you will be asked to identify an object or a specific piece of information.

If you are taking a tone test, you will hear a series of sounds on one ear at a time. Tests usually begin with low-pitched sounds at a high volume and then end with high-pitched ones at a low volume. Some of the more thorough online hearing tests may include both a speech section and a tone section.

After you finish the test, you will probably be redirected to a page showing your results. Sometimes, the testing company will email your results to you after a few minutes.

Interpreting your results
Most online hearing test results are relatively easy to interpret, especially if they were normal. If the test found something wasn’t quite right, don’t expect to see any complex charts: most will use bar graphs, star-based ratings, or simple descriptions. The best tests can provide separate results for each ear and will flag specific types of sounds that seem to be especially troublesome for you.

These online tests are only meant for screening. If you got abnormal or “inconclusive” results, you will probably need to see an audiologist in person. He or she will investigate the case and provide you with an adequate solution – which may include a hearing aid.

How can I get the most from an online hearing test?
Online hearing tests don’t offer the controlled, standardized environments of a professional audiology office. It’s up to you to mimic these conditions; otherwise your results could be affected. Good tests will provide clear instructions, which you should be sure to follow.

Find a quiet room of your own
This should be free of any background music or humming noises (such as A/C machines, water pumps, or busy streets). Close the windows and alert the rest of the house to keep it down for a few minutes

Get rid of any interruptions or distractions
Even if the whole house is quiet, you could ruin a speech-based test by keeping your mobile device in the room or even set to vibrate in your coat pocket. Prevent all distractions.

Set your volume properly
Importantly, you should also turn the volume on your computer to 50% unless otherwise instructed. The best tests – such as the one from our top recommendation, MDHearingAid – will tell you the optimal volume setting for their test. If not, though, be safe at first and set it to 50%, because more than that in some tests could be painful during the “high pitched” section of the test, or it may mask some of your hearing loss.

Know what sound system to use
An online hearing test often will work decently with good-quality speakers, headsets, or earbuds, but some require a headset. Even for the tests that give you an option, if you want to be able to test your hearing on each ear (recommended) then you will need a headset of some kind. Low quality of the headset could translate to low quality of hearing test results – we’ve all used low-quality wireless earphones that cut in and out. That could seriously hamper your testing.

Our top pick, MDHearingAid's online hearing test
BEST OVERALL & BEST FOR THOSE ON A BUDGET

MdHearingAid
The hearing test from MDHearingAid is lengthier than some other tests, which can only last around three minutes. By contrast, MDHearingAid’s test takes closer to ten minutes but is worth the extra time commitment. This test was designed by professional sound engineers to gauge your hearing across multiple frequencies.

You’ll need a good headset, a quiet room with no distractions, and volume set to maximum because the tone pulses drop quite a bit in volume. Test results will tell you whether each of your ears is healthy in hearing or instead suffering from low, moderate, severe or profound hearing loss.

Because it is a sophisticated tone test, this test is very useful for all of us who want to check our hearing frequently and proactively in order to identify any changes or hearing loss as soon as possible. This is a good, healthy practice that we recommend. MDHearingAid’s test will also be very useful for people who have been diagnosed with hearing loss to assess their hearing improvements or to keep track of further hearing loss.

If your testing shows a loss in hearing, then the benefits continue with MDHearingAid. One of the primary reasons this is our top pick is that the company manufactures and sells its hearing aids directly to you. You have one single company helping you with all of this, streamlining the process. Because MDHearingAid controls manufacturing and sales, the company can offer its hearing aids at much lower prices than competitors. The entire process can happen remotely online. If you prefer to call rather than order online, you can get help choosing the right model or get assistance with your order by dialing MDHearingAid at 1-800-315-6284.