Best Omega-3 Supplement

Lee Anderson

 Aug 30, 2022

Our bodies work because of omega-3 fatty acids. They help build cell walls, provide energy, and keep just about every system in your body running smoothly. Yet, the “fat” in “fatty acids” has scared many people away over the years. Fats aren’t an inherently bad thing. In fact, omega-3s are some of the most important nutrients we need.

Since few people have the time or money to prepare fish twice a week like the Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommend for optimal omega-3 levels, the next best option is to take an omega-3 supplement. But there are multiple kinds of omega-3 supplements, all with different dosages, ingredients, costs, safety features, and more. Finding the right omega-3 supplement for you can get overwhelming. We did the hard work for you and picked the seven best omega-3 supplements available right now.

If you’re in a hurry, check out our top picks below.

Top considerations for omega-3 supplements
Cost
Winner: Nature Made

The value of an omega-3 supplement comes not only from the price listed on the product itself but also from savings and the supplement’s quality. From subscription and bulk savings to the dose per serving and additives, dozens of considerations ultimately come together to form our opinions about the best supplement for your money.

Nature Made Burp-Less Fish Oil wins our cost category because of Nature Made’s bulk options and low price per serving. You can get 30 or 100 servings (60 and 200 capsules, respectively) for about 25 cents per serving, providing 2,400mg of fish oil and 720mg of omega-3s. If that isn’t enough omega-3 for your daily diet, the bulk options allow you to double your serving size while keeping your cost per serving on the lower end of our list. Plus, you can save 10% (and earn free shipping) by signing up for their subscription program.

Ingredients
Winners: Life Extension and Xtend-Life

What goes into a supplement directly affects what you’ll get out of it. It’s critical for an omega-3 supplement to offer clean, heavy-metal-free ingredients that have been well-tested and sourced responsibly. However, the best kinds and number of ingredients will depend on your wants and needs. Some might want a one-ingredient product that directly correlates with the Dietary Guidelines for Americans’ recommended daily intake, while others want a more robust formula.

Xtend-Life has only two ingredients inside their Green Lipped Mussel Powder supplements: the aforementioned mussel powder and rosemary leaf extract. The rosemary extract is a natural preservative and provides powerful antioxidants and polyphenols, specifically carnosic acid, which prevents the supplements from oxidizing and losing their power. And with a wallop of 2,400mg of mussel powder per serving, Xtend-Life ensures you’ll get exactly what you need and nothing more.

But there are more places to get your daily dose of omega-3s than just fish. Life Extension pulls omega-3s from a large list of ingredients for their Super Omega-3 Plus, including:

Fish oil
Krill oil
Sesame seed lignans
Olive extract
Extra virgin olive oil
Each ingredient brings omega-3s and other heart-healthy ingredients — like astaxanthin and a wide range of polyphenols — to every serving. The list covers every major omega fatty acid, providing a rounded nutritional profile without too many extras (though it does contain caramel coloring and maltodextrin). You can get a certificate of analysis for every product Life Extension makes, including Super Omega-3 Plus, to see exactly when it was tested by an independent third party and what they found.

Safety
Winner: Natural Force

Since the FDA doesn’t have the same testing and research requirements for supplements as they do for food and prescription medication, the pressure is on manufacturers — and consumers — to ensure that a supplement is safe. This means that all products are tested for quality, purity, and potency (preferably by an independent third party). In the best cases, a transparent certificate of analysis is available for you to check that they dotted their i’s. Ingredients available in safe doses and the manufacturing facility’s compliance with current Good Manufacturing Processes (cGMP or GMP) are also critical to a supplement’s safety rating.

We also consider sustainability as part of our safety testing, as fishing (and hunting other creatures from which you can derive omega-3 fatty acids) has some inherent sustainability risks. Ensuring that fish and other sea creatures are sustainably harvested means that a company thinks about the Earth’s health and is more likely to keep yours in the front of their minds.

Natural Force provides a healthy dose of omega-3s in every serving of Pure Omega-3, and they are also incredibly transparent about their production process. It’s manufactured in a cGMP-compliant facility, and they name the three different independent third parties that test every formula. Every Natural Force product — including Pure Omega-3 — has its own webpage explaining what they test for and linking to all of the most recent third-party lab test results and certificates of analyses. And as a certified B-Corp, they use clean, sustainably-sourced, and wild-caught fish that aren’t at risk of overfishing to make their fish oil.

Efficacy
Winner: Life Extension

Clinical research has revealed a wealth of knowledge about omega-3s. It’s important that supplement manufacturers take this information seriously. This means not overpromising what omega-3s can do, dosing their products effectively, and using high-quality ingredients. Finding and referencing those clinical studies directly also wins favor, helping you understand why the companies made the decisions they did.

Life Extension uses the power of every omega fatty acid to boost their Super Omega-3 Plus formula but does so in a tasteful way. They cite 24 studies from top-notch scientific journals that justify every ingredient and health benefit you might find. You’ll find more than enough EPA and DHA in every serving and clinically relevant amounts of phospholipids, astaxanthin, olive extract, and sesame seed lignan extract. Plus, they’ve exceeded international purity standards for their fish oil by distilling it with novel technology that reduces environmental pollutants.

Convenience
Winner: Kori

Supplements that are easy to take are more likely to become part of your daily routine. Convenience isn’t the only thing that makes or breaks a supplement’s place in our top picks, but an inconvenient product is less likely to appeal to most people. When we consider a supplement’s convenience, we look at when, how often, and how many supplements you’ll need to take, if they need to be taken with food, and (in the case of omega-3 supplements) whether or not they have fishy aftertastes.

Kori allows you to customize your omega-3 supplement routine to your needs without compromising on nutritional value or cost. There are three different sizes to their krill oil softgels: large, medium, and small, and you’ll take a different number of softgels depending on their size (one, two, and three, respectively). No matter what you decide, however, you’ll always get 1,200mg of omega-3s and pay $19.99 for a one-time single-bottle order. (And, as a plus, there’s no fishy aftertaste, meaning you can take it whenever and not worry about how your breath smells.)

How our top recommendations compare
To make it a little easier to compare your options, we’ve put together a chart that summarizes all the important facts about our top products. All financial information is based on the cost of one one-time order; prices and values may differ with subscription programs, bulk deals, and ordering different-sized containers.