Best Muscle Building Stack

 Daniel Imperiale

Sep 8, 2022

Building muscle is supposed to be a simple equation. You lift weights and eat more than maintenance calories, and the muscle should grow. But it doesn’t always work this way. Multiple factors can get in the way of success in the gym, from the quality of the food you’re eating to your genetics.

That’s why so many people looking to put on muscle and keep it on turn to supplements that can give them an edge. And multiple clinical studies confirm that supplementation with protein, vitamins, amino acids, and more can help you get more gains out of the same amount of work in the gym. However, one supplement or protein powder on its own might not be enough, especially when you consider that different ingredients work best at specific times around your workout.

Muscle-building stacks account for this by breaking up vital nutrients into pills and drinks you consume at various points throughout the day. This allows you to maximize each benefit and lets the supplements work together to achieve desired results.

If you’re a little pressed for time, here’s a quick rundown of our favorite muscle-building stacks.

Muscle building stacks: top considerations
Choosing the right muscle-building stack for you depends on several factors. Here are the criteria we paid the closest attention to when making our selections.

Effectiveness
Winner: Transparent Labs

In addition to our testers’ experience, we looked to the specific ingredients and doses available from a given stack to determine its effectiveness. We carefully compared those ingredient lists to available clinical research that could support their efficacy and sought to exalt only the combinations that stood the best chance of success for the most people.

There are certain caveats to effectiveness for some consumers. For example, whey is generally a better tool for adding bulk than pea protein, but it’s not an option for vegans and many lactose intolerant individuals. Caffeine is another divisive ingredient in pre-workout supplements among those with a sensitivity. We’ve taken those needs into account in developing our guide.

Cost
Winner: JYM

The range of costs among muscle-building stacks isn’t particularly wide, especially among the options we’ve included here. There are certainly those with a lower price tag, but that’s not where our examination stops. We weigh the cost against potential efficacy, looking at the quality of ingredients, third-party testing, and daily dosages to determine which company offers you the most benefit for the least money.

In some cases, getting any benefit is worth it, and you might not see the need to spend more up-front for greater results down the line. Not everyone has extra capital to burn; we get that. Unfortunately, the best options out there are not also the cheapest. Weigh your goals against your finances when making this decision.

Safety
Winner: Transparent Labs

Compared to taking steroids, most muscle-building stacks are incredibly safe. But some are still safer than others. One important factor we look for is third-party testing. This ensures that any given supplement contains exactly what the company says is in it with no contamination or dilution.

Another way we evaluate safety is by comparing a supplement’s ingredients to available clinical data on adverse reactions. Sometimes these reactions are dose-specific or particular contraindications with prescription medicines, and we use this information to weigh the potential risk any given supplement poses.

Convenience
Winner: Transparent Labs

Convenience in a muscle-building stack comes from a handful of places. It starts with a company’s website, ease of use, and customer consideration. Simple navigation, money-back guarantees, and privacy policies also play into this category. Flexible subscription options are also a big plus when available.

Taking a given supplement stack needs to be convenient, as well. Complicated dose timing can be prohibitive for a busy lifestyle, so fewer pills and drinks and more convenient times each day can make a big difference.

How our top recommendations compare
To give you a quick overview of how our top muscle-building stacks compare to one another, we’ve put together this chart outlining their costs, supplement quantities, and protein types.How do muscle building stacks work?
Muscle-building stacks work by taking various supplements that can improve workout performance and boost results and organizing them into an effective system. Instead of taking everything at once, you might take a daily vitamin supplement in the morning, a pre-workout before heading to the gym, and a protein powder or recovery aid after your lifting session.

Here’s a look at the types of supplements included in various muscle-building stacks and some of the ingredients you’re likely to find in them.

Dailies
These are supplements you’ll take daily that provide your body with vitamins, minerals, amino acids, and other elements that studies show can improve performance in the gym and recovery afterward. In many studies, the ingredients in these supplements are associated with greater muscle mass after a training period.

Common ingredients in daily muscle-building supplements include:

Vitamin B complex
Vitamin D3
Omega 3s
Zinc
Chromium
Pre-workouts
Pre-workouts are usually drinks that often include ingredients to do one of two things. They either help give you more energy in the gym so you can perform at your best, or they help protect your muscles from catabolism. That means your body won’t target your muscles for energy and potentially undo your hard work.

Common ingredients in pre-workouts include:

BCAAs
Beta-alanine
L-citrulline malate
Post-workouts (recovery)
Recovery supplements also often come in the form of drinks. They’re occasionally combined with your protein supplements but also regularly exist on their own. Like pre-workouts, their ingredients guard against catabolism, but they also provide your body with carbs to replenish glycogen stores spent during your training sessions.