Ritual Vitamins Review: Is this the future of vitamins?

 Jennifer Wannen

May 25, 2022

While many in the supplement industry go the way of “more is better” with mounting doses and longer ingredients, Ritual takes a different approach. It believes in the central role of diet for the majority of nutritional intake, and it limits ingredients to a core set of nutrients that its contents reflect the most common gaps, especially for vegans, vegetarians, and women who are pregnant. Ritual claims to have analyzed thousands of scientific studies to formulate multivitamins that intelligently fill gaps in the diets of Americans, by age and gender, without including excessive or counterproductive ingredients.

What’s unique about its formulas? Are they a good value compared to the competitors? Finally, are Ritual’s vitamins a good choice for everyone? We thoroughly tested the company’s products and services for ourselves and are sharing our experience to help you decide if Ritual is right for you.

Why you should trust us
Over the past two decades, Innerbody Research has helped tens of millions of readers make more informed decisions about staying healthy and living healthier lifestyles. Our testing team has purchased and compared over 500 health-related products to date, and we are constantly updating our reviews based on the latest advances. This guide, like all medical-related content on our website, is thoroughly vetted by one or more members of our Medical Review Board for accuracy.

While each review brings together the feedback and expertise of our larger testing team and Medical Review Board, the central author for this review has been a researcher and writer in the nutrition and supplement field for eleven years. Our assessment includes testing of the products as well as dozens of hours of detailed research and evaluation.

How we evaluated the company
We evaluated the entire customer experience from signing up for a Ritual subscription to using these products through a 30-day time window. We evaluated the company’s mission against its product line and the products’ nutritional composition against common dietary needs. We researched the sourcing of its nutrients, the absorption potential of its formula, and the production standards Ritual employs. We also compare the company to its competitors for cost, quality, selection, and service.

Our assessment shows Ritual to be a well-designed supplement choice for most people. Its moderate doses of nutrients, whose potency is verified by outside labs, promise to fill in common nutritional gaps without the risks of toxicity that come from extreme dosages or poorly balanced formulas.

The guidance of its medical advisory board is evident in the prioritization of traceable nutrient sourcing and safer, more effective nutrient forms (such as folate versus folic acid), as well as nutrients that are essential for supporting physiological processes in the body (such as vitamin K2 and boron for maintaining bone health). A gold standard clinical trial supports the efficacy of its formula, noting that Ritual substantially increased levels of vitamin D (43%) and omega-3 (41%) in subjects.

Ritual products are manufactured according to Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), quality regulations enforced by the FDA that ensure safe production and accurate labeling. Ritual also employs third-party testing for heavy metals, allergens, and microbes. The company’s Essential for Women 18+ recently earned certification from the United States Pharmacopeia (USP), a federally recognized standard within the pharmaceutical and supplement industry. It’s a coveted industry approval that verifies product claims, nutrient levels, and bioavailability as well as formula purity. Although the company has prioritized certification for its women’s vitamins first, it says that it intends to pursue the same for its other products.

What is Ritual and who is it for?
Ritual is a vitamin brand with a mission: produce a multivitamin supplement that targets common nutritional gaps using high-quality ingredients in a formula that is optimally absorbed by the body. The founder was inspired to create Ritual when she found herself disillusioned by available prenatal vitamin options that had questionable ingredients.

Ritual aims to stick close to the science of best nutrient forms and essential nutritional interactions. It offers a transparent, no-nonsense view into the formulas, which are customized for the unique needs of gender and life stage. The company’s dedication to transparency about its nutrient sourcing and formula design is thorough—and rare within the supplement industry.

Ritual multivitamin formulas may be an ideal choice for those who already have a reasonably good diet and who don’t have significant health issues. They offer safe and reasonable doses of essential nutrients that could help most people in their pursuit of optimal health. While the subscription structure might seem inconvenient for some people, Ritual is correct to maintain that consistency matters for effectiveness.

Ritual isn’t the best choice for people whose diet may be deficient in core nutrients or short in variety that would offer them the needed amounts of a wider span of nutrients. It may also not be the best option for those whose nutrient needs are greater than average because of personal size, activity levels, or medical conditions. Additionally, Ritual may not be the ideal choice for those with higher nutrient needs or lower nutrient absorption due to particular medication regimens.

Product line
Ritual offers the following multivitamin formulas. Unless otherwise noted, all formulas come in mint-flavored transparent capsules.


Getting started with Ritual
Ritual is only available through its company website. You’ll begin by answering a few initial questions, including how many people are in your household (Hint: answer one if you’re ordering only for yourself). If you’re purchasing vitamins for more than one person, you’ll be eligible for a bundle discount of $10 off your first order.

The sequence will then ask about your age and assigned sex at birth. The questionnaire offers non-binary as an option with a resource page for trans and non-binary customers that explains the differences in the gender-specific formulas and suggests customers consult their physicians when choosing the right formula.

Customers who select the female designation in the questionnaire will select whether they’re looking for daily nutrient support or prenatal or postnatal nutritional support.

The questionnaire will then share a key nutrient priority for your particular age, sex, and health goal group (e.g. iron for women under 50 who are not looking for pre-/post-natal vitamins).

Because Ritual also carries vegan protein powder, you’ll be asked how often you use protein powder (daily, occasionally, before/after exercise, or never). Regardless of how you answer, your “Recommended Ritual” will suggest protein powder in addition to a Ritual vitamin.

If you aren’t interested in protein powder, you can simply click the “x” to the right of the protein powder in the list, and both the powder and shaker will be removed from your Ritual lineup. The screen will allow you to add it back if you change your mind before checking out.

When you’re ready to make the purchase, you’ll be asked to set up an account with your name, email, and password. You’ll provide your shipping and payment information next and have the chance to confirm your order.

Once you’ve placed your order, you’ll get an immediate on-screen confirmation as well as an email confirmation in your inbox. You’ll also be invited to “plan” your “Ritual” by pairing your daily vitamin with an existing habit, such as taking it with breakfast.

Shipping is free, but expect to wait a bit to receive your first order. Although shipping times will vary, our testers waited two weeks on average before receiving the vitamins. Subsequent shipments, however, came in a very timely manner, and testers always had the next bottle before they needed it.